pygqlmap/README.MD, before:

# pygqlmap

## Introduction

This document explains in detail how the core of the mapping works.
This module can be also used to manually create python classes corresponding to a GraphQL type.

## Table of Contents

1. [Creation of a mappable python object](#creation-of-a-mappable-python-object)
    1. [GQLObject](#gqlobject)
2. [Creation of a operation](#creation-of-an-operation)
    1. [GQLQuery](#gqlquery)
    2. [GQLMutation](#gqlmutation)
        1. [Arguments management](#arguments-management)
3. [Dynamic visibility of fields](#dynamic-visibility-of-fields)
4. [Parsing of a response](#parsing-of-a-response)
    1. [GQLResponse](#gqlresponse)


## Creation of a mappable python object

In order to create a python class representing a GraphQL object _GQLObject_ class has to be inherited.

### GQLObject

*GQLObject* is the base class needed in order to create a python class representing a GraphQL object.

Example:

```python
from pygqlmap.components import GQLObject

class myCustomObject(GQLObject):
    myString: str
    myCode: int
    myList: list
```

Requirements for the class definition:

* Inheriting _GQLObject_ class
* Fields must be statically declared

The example above will be able to generate the following GraphQL object

```
myCustomObject {
    myString
    myCode
    myList
}
```

A use case can be seen [here](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstquery/simple_obj_test.py)


### Adding arguments

If arguments are needed a field '_args' must be added to the created class.

Given the example above

```python
from pygqlmap.components import GQLObject

class myCustomObject(GQLObject):
    myString: str
    myCode: int
    myList: list
    _args: MyArgs
```

The definition of this field must be a class:
    * Inheriting from _GQLArgsSet_ and _GQLObject_
    * With fields statically declared

```python
from pygqlmap.components import GQLObject

class MyArgs(GQLArgsSet, GQLObject):
    firstArg: str
    secondArg: ID
```

Instantiating the classes and calling _export_gql_source_ property

```python
myObj = myCustomObject()
myObj._args.firstArg = 'myArgument'
myObj._args.secondArg = ID('myID')

myObj.export_gql_source
```

the following GraphQL object will be generated

```
myCustomObject(firstArg: "myArgument", secondArg: "myID") {
    myString
    myCode
    myList
}
```


## Creation of an operation

GraphQL Operations can be mapped in the same way as for GraphQL objects. In this case _GQLQuery_ or _GQLMutation_ class has to be inherited respectively for a query or a mutation.

### GQLQuery

GQLQuery is the base class in charge of composing a GraphQL query.

Example:

```python
from pygqlmap.components import GQLObject

class CountriesConnection(GQLObject):
   totalCount: int
   edges: CountryEdge
   pageInfo: ConnectionPageInfo

class CountriesArguments(GQLArgsSet, GQLObject):
    currencyCode: NonNull_str
    namePrefix: str

class countries(GQLQuery):
   _args: CountriesArguments
   type: CountriesConnection

```

The creation of the operation requires:

* Inheriting _GQLQuery_/_GQLMutation_ class
* Declaring a field 'type' representing the payload of the query
* If arguments are needed a field '_args' has to be declared. The class representing its type has to:
    * Inherit from _GQLArgsSet_ and _GQLObject_
    * Fields must be statically declared

The base class can be customized further with these optional definitions:

* name: string used to give a name to the operation
* _args_type: how the arguments will be exported (default - literal values)

Instantiating the class and calling _export_gql_source_ property

```python
from pygqlmap.enums import ArgType

myQuery = countries()
myQuery._args.currencyCode = 'USD'
myQuery._args.namePrefix = "unit"

myQuery.name = 'myFirstQuery'
myQuery._args_type = ArgType.VARIABLES
myQuery.export_gql_source
```

will generate the following GraphQL syntax:

```
query myFirstQuery ($currencyCode: String!, $namePrefix: String){
    countries(currencyCode: $currencyCode, namePrefix: $namePrefix) {
        totalCount
        edges {
            cursor
            node {
                myString
                myCode
                myList
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Calling the relating GraphQL API server (example using _requests_):

```python
response = request("POST", gql_url, json={ "query": query.export_gql_source }, headers=headers)
```

Use cases can be seen [here](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstquery/)


### GQLMutation

As per _GQLQuery_ GQLMutation is the base class in charge of composing a GraphQL mutation.

Supposed a GQLObject _updateRepository_ created for a mutation

```python

class Repository(GQLObject):
    ....content of Repository....

class updateRepository(GQLMutation):
    clientMutationId: str
    repository: Repository
```

Similarly to queries the creation of a mutation would be:

```python
core_mutation = updateRepository()
core_mutation.name = 'myManualMutationUpdateRepository'

core_mutation._args._input.repositoryId = "someID"
core_mutation._args._input.hasIssuesEnabled = False

response = request("POST", graphQLServerUrl, json={ "query": core_mutation.export_gql_source }, headers=headers)
```

The function *export_gql_source* will generate the following GraphQL syntax:

```
mutation myManualUpdateRepository  {
    updateRepository(input:  { repositoryId: "R_kgDOH7MI4g", hasIssuesEnabled: false } ) {
        clientMutationId
        repository   {
            ....content of Repository....
        }
    }
}
```

Use cases can be seen [here](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstmutation/)


### Arguments management

Arguments can be added to a mapped operation, these can be done creating a class inheriting from _GQLArgsSet_ and _GQLObject_.

Example:

```python
from pygqlmap.enums import ArgType

query = myCustomQuery()
query.name = 'myQuery'

query._args.myCode = 3
query._args.myID = ID('MTE=')

query._args_type = ArgType.VARIABLES

print(query.export_gql_source)
print(query.export_gqlvariables)
```

_export_gql_source_ will generate the following GraphQL object:

```
query myQuery($myCode: Int, $myID: ID) {
    myCustomObject(myCode: $myCode, myID: $myID) {
        myString
        myCode
        myList
    }
}
```

and _export_gqlvariables_ the following variables:

```
{
    "myCode": 3,
    "myID": "MTE="
}
```

Example using _requests_:

```python
request("POST", gql_url, json={ "query": query.export_gql_source, "variables": query.export_gqlvariables }, headers=headers)
```

Use cases for queries can be seen here:

[Object with arguments as literal values](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstquery/simple_obj_args_literal_test.py)

[Object with arguments and variables ](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstquery/simple_obj_args_vars_test.py)

[Connection with arguments as literal values](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstquery/connobj_args_literal_test.py)

[Connection with arguments and variables](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstquery/connobj_args_vars_test.py)


## Dynamic visibility of fields

For an operation it is possible to hide fields of a GQLObject if no needed.

Given a python object created in this way:

```python
from pgqlmCore import GQLObject

class myNestedObject(GQLObject):
    fieldA: str
    fieldB: int

class myCustomObject(GQLQuery):
    myString: str
    myCode: int
    myNestedfield: myNestedObject
```
The mapped GraphQL version of a query would be

```
query {
    myCustomObject {
        myString
        myCode
        myNestedfield {
            fieldA
            fieldB
        }
    }
}
```

It is possible to 'temporarily' hide unnecessary fields, this can be done using *set_show* function:

With the following code

```python
query = MyConnection()
query.name = 'myQuery'
query.set_show('myCustomObject.myCode', False)
query.set_show('myCustomObject.myNestedfield.fieldB', False)
query.export_gql_source
```

the mapped GraphQL version of _query_ would become

```
query myQuery{
    myCustomObject {
        myString
        myNestedfield {
            fieldA
        }
    }
}
```

hiding _myCode_ and _fieldB_.

An use case can be seen [here](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstquery/simple_obj_viewchange_test.py)


## Parsing of a response

Responses received from a GraphQL server can be automatically converted into a python object declared for the query through _map_gqldata_to_obj_ function


```python
    from pgqlmCore import GQLResponse
    ....
    response = request("POST", gql_server_url, json=json={ "query": query.export_gql_source }, headers=headers)

    gql_response = GQLResponse(response)
    gql_response.map_gqldata_to_obj(query.type)

    gql_response.print_msg_out()
    print('Result object: ' + str(gql_response.result_obj))
```

To parse the GraphQL response:

* Instantiate a [GQLResponse](#gqlresponse) python object passing the response received from the server

* Call mapGQLDataToObj function passing the _obj_ field within query object that has been used for the communication with the server (or alternatively an empty instance of the class).

_print_msg_out_ function will print the outcome of the request


### GQLResponse

The purpose of GQLResponse object is managing the responses received from a GraphQL API server.

The constructor requires the following parameter:

* response: the response received after a POST request to a GraphQL server

The function *map_gqldata_to_obj* maps all the information from the HTTP response to the relating python object.
It requires the following parameter:

* queryObject: the python object that has been created for the [operation](#creation-of-an-operation)

Commit message:

Add * for visibility
Added change of visibility for all fields in a type using `*` symbol

pygqlmap/README.MD, after:

# pygqlmap

## Introduction

This document explains in detail how the core of the mapping works.
This module can be also used to manually create python classes corresponding to a GraphQL type.

## Table of Contents

1. [Creation of a mappable python object](#creation-of-a-mappable-python-object)
    1. [GQLObject](#gqlobject)
2. [Creation of a operation](#creation-of-an-operation)
    1. [GQLQuery](#gqlquery)
    2. [GQLMutation](#gqlmutation)
        1. [Arguments management](#arguments-management)
3. [Dynamic visibility of fields](#dynamic-visibility-of-fields)
4. [Parsing of a response](#parsing-of-a-response)
    1. [GQLResponse](#gqlresponse)


## Creation of a mappable python object

In order to create a python class representing a GraphQL object _GQLObject_ class has to be inherited.

### GQLObject

*GQLObject* is the base class needed in order to create a python class representing a GraphQL object.

Example:

```python
from pygqlmap.components import GQLObject

class myCustomObject(GQLObject):
    myString: str
    myCode: int
    myList: list
```

Requirements for the class definition:

* Inheriting _GQLObject_ class
* Fields must be statically declared

The example above will be able to generate the following GraphQL object

```
myCustomObject {
    myString
    myCode
    myList
}
```

A use case can be seen [here](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstquery/simple_obj_test.py)


### Adding arguments

If arguments are needed a field '_args' must be added to the created class.

Given the example above

```python
from pygqlmap.components import GQLObject

class myCustomObject(GQLObject):
    myString: str
    myCode: int
    myList: list
    _args: MyArgs
```

The definition of this field must be a class:
    * Inheriting from _GQLArgsSet_ and _GQLObject_
    * With fields statically declared

```python
from pygqlmap.components import GQLObject

class MyArgs(GQLArgsSet, GQLObject):
    firstArg: str
    secondArg: ID
```

Instantiating the classes and calling _export_gql_source_ property

```python
myObj = myCustomObject()
myObj._args.firstArg = 'myArgument'
myObj._args.secondArg = ID('myID')

myObj.export_gql_source
```

the following GraphQL object will be generated

```
myCustomObject(firstArg: "myArgument", secondArg: "myID") {
    myString
    myCode
    myList
}
```


## Creation of an operation

GraphQL Operations can be mapped in the same way as for GraphQL objects. In this case _GQLQuery_ or _GQLMutation_ class has to be inherited respectively for a query or a mutation.

### GQLQuery

GQLQuery is the base class in charge of composing a GraphQL query.

Example:

```python
from pygqlmap.components import GQLObject

class CountriesConnection(GQLObject):
   totalCount: int
   edges: CountryEdge
   pageInfo: ConnectionPageInfo

class CountriesArguments(GQLArgsSet, GQLObject):
    currencyCode: NonNull_str
    namePrefix: str

class countries(GQLQuery):
   _args: CountriesArguments
   type: CountriesConnection

```

The creation of the operation requires:

* Inheriting _GQLQuery_/_GQLMutation_ class
* Declaring a field 'type' representing the payload of the query
* If arguments are needed a field '_args' has to be declared. The class representing its type has to:
    * Inherit from _GQLArgsSet_ and _GQLObject_
    * Fields must be statically declared

The base class can be customized further with these optional definitions:

* name: string used to give a name to the operation
* _args_type: how the arguments will be exported (default - literal values)

Instantiating the class and calling _export_gql_source_ property

```python
from pygqlmap.enums import ArgType

myQuery = countries()
myQuery._args.currencyCode = 'USD'
myQuery._args.namePrefix = "unit"

myQuery.name = 'myFirstQuery'
myQuery._args_type = ArgType.VARIABLES
myQuery.export_gql_source
```

will generate the following GraphQL syntax:

```
query myFirstQuery ($currencyCode: String!, $namePrefix: String){
    countries(currencyCode: $currencyCode, namePrefix: $namePrefix) {
        totalCount
        edges {
            cursor
            node {
                myString
                myCode
                myList
            }
        }
    }
}
```

Calling the relating GraphQL API server (example using _requests_):

```python
response = request("POST", gql_url, json={ "query": query.export_gql_source }, headers=headers)
```

Use cases can be seen [here](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstquery/)


### GQLMutation

As per _GQLQuery_ GQLMutation is the base class in charge of composing a GraphQL mutation.

Supposed a GQLObject _updateRepository_ created for a mutation

```python

class Repository(GQLObject):
    ....content of Repository....

class updateRepository(GQLMutation):
    clientMutationId: str
    repository: Repository
```

Similarly to queries the creation of a mutation would be:

```python
core_mutation = updateRepository()
core_mutation.name = 'myManualMutationUpdateRepository'

core_mutation._args._input.repositoryId = "someID"
core_mutation._args._input.hasIssuesEnabled = False

response = request("POST", graphQLServerUrl, json={ "query": core_mutation.export_gql_source }, headers=headers)
```

The function *export_gql_source* will generate the following GraphQL syntax:

```
mutation myManualUpdateRepository  {
    updateRepository(input:  { repositoryId: "R_kgDOH7MI4g", hasIssuesEnabled: false } ) {
        clientMutationId
        repository   {
            ....content of Repository....
        }
    }
}
```

Use cases can be seen [here](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstmutation/)


### Arguments management

Arguments can be added to a mapped operation, these can be done creating a class inheriting from _GQLArgsSet_ and _GQLObject_.

Example:

```python
from pygqlmap.enums import ArgType

query = myCustomQuery()
query.name = 'myQuery'

query._args.myCode = 3
query._args.myID = ID('MTE=')

query._args_type = ArgType.VARIABLES

print(query.export_gql_source)
print(query.export_gqlvariables)
```

_export_gql_source_ will generate the following GraphQL object:

```
query myQuery($myCode: Int, $myID: ID) {
    myCustomObject(myCode: $myCode, myID: $myID) {
        myString
        myCode
        myList
    }
}
```

and _export_gqlvariables_ the following variables:

```
{
    "myCode": 3,
    "myID": "MTE="
}
```

Example using _requests_:

```python
request("POST", gql_url, json={ "query": query.export_gql_source, "variables": query.export_gqlvariables }, headers=headers)
```

Use cases for queries can be seen here:

[Object with arguments as literal values](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstquery/simple_obj_args_literal_test.py)

[Object with arguments and variables ](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstquery/simple_obj_args_vars_test.py)

[Connection with arguments as literal values](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstquery/connobj_args_literal_test.py)

[Connection with arguments and variables](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstquery/connobj_args_vars_test.py)


## Dynamic visibility of fields

For an operation it is possible to hide fields of a GQLObject if no needed.

Given a python object created in this way:

```python
from pgqlmCore import GQLObject

class myNestedObject(GQLObject):
    fieldA: str
    fieldB: int

class myCustomObject(GQLQuery):
    myString: str
    myCode: int
    myNestedfield: myNestedObject
```
The mapped GraphQL version of a query would be

```
query {
    myCustomObject {
        myString
        myCode
        myNestedfield {
            fieldA
            fieldB
        }
    }
}
```

It is possible to 'temporarily' hide unnecessary fields, this can be done using *set_show* function:

With the following code

```python
query = MyConnection()
query.name = 'myQuery'
query.set_show('myCustomObject.myCode', False)
query.set_show('myCustomObject.myNestedfield.fieldB', False)
query.export_gql_source
```

the mapped GraphQL version of _query_ would become

```
query myQuery{
    myCustomObject {
        myString
        myNestedfield {
            fieldA
        }
    }
}
```

hiding _myCode_ and _fieldB_.

An use case can be seen [here](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstquery/simple_obj_viewchange_test.py)

It is possible also hiding all fields for a type using `*`.
An use case can be seen [here](https://github.com/dapalex/py-graphql-mapper/blob/develop/tests/tstquery/complex_obj_test.py)

## Parsing of a response

Responses received from a GraphQL server can be automatically converted into a python object declared for the query through _map_gqldata_to_obj_ function


```python
    from pgqlmCore import GQLResponse
    ....
    response = request("POST", gql_server_url, json=json={ "query": query.export_gql_source }, headers=headers)

    gql_response = GQLResponse(response)
    gql_response.map_gqldata_to_obj(query.type)

    gql_response.print_msg_out()
    print('Result object: ' + str(gql_response.result_obj))
```

To parse the GraphQL response:

* Instantiate a [GQLResponse](#gqlresponse) python object passing the response received from the server

* Call mapGQLDataToObj function passing the _obj_ field within query object that has been used for the communication with the server (or alternatively an empty instance of the class).

_print_msg_out_ function will print the outcome of the request


### GQLResponse

The purpose of GQLResponse object is managing the responses received from a GraphQL API server.

The constructor requires the following parameter:

* response: the response received after a POST request to a GraphQL server

The function *map_gqldata_to_obj* maps all the information from the HTTP response to the relating python object.
It requires the following parameter:

* queryObject: the python object that has been created for the [operation](#creation-of-an-operation)
